    2020 Year Project Log

12 Oct

  Project Ideas:  bicycle ...
                  motorcycle ...
                  airplane ...
                  car ...

  Software --
  Hardware ++


19 Oct

 Idea 1: Airplane Flight Data Recorder.
  Using many sensors to acquire data, process, display it. Used to help
  investigators in crash scenario

 Idea 2:

  Digital Flight Data Recorder

  The objective in the selection of parameters is that the following information,
  required for accident investigation purposes shall be obtainable either directly
  or by deduction from the system.
          a) the flight path of the airplane,
          b) the attitude of the airplane in achieving that flight path,
          c) the basic forces acting upon the airplane and resulting in the
             achieved flight path (eg lift; drag; thrust; control forces),

  System parameters
  1. Time (GMT or elapsed time)
  2. Pressure altitude
  3. Airspeed
  4. Normal acceleration (i.e. normal to the longitude and lateral axis of the
     airplane)
  5. Compass heading
  6. Engine power
  7. Flap angle
  8. Temperature
  9. Primary flying controls


26 Oct

  Proposal due Friday 29th

  Main board to use: Arduino - need a separate Wi-Fi module, limited inputs/outputs
                     Esp8266 - limited GPIO
                     Intel Edison - too powerful, big footprint
                     Raspberry Pi -  big footprint
                     Esp32 - use of Arduino libraries, modules

  Esp32 languages - Arduino IDE - C++ API
                    ESP - IDF   - C API, FreeRTOS - complicated
                    Micropython - Python - need to learn from start
                    MicroEJ SDK - not supported board

  mongoose OS?
  mDash?


2 Nov

  Components to use to measure proposed parameters:
      Time - Arduino time libraries - RTC? get time on program start
      Pressure Altitude - barometric pressure & altitude - BMP280
                                                           BME280 =+ humidity
                                                           BMP388 = updated
      Airspeed - GPS measurement (actual airspeed = pitot tube, expensive)
      Normal Acceleration - acceleration ADXL3xx Accelerometer
      Compass Heading - magnetometer HMC5883l
      Engine power - digital / analogue input from receiver, motor
      Flap, controls angle - digital / analogue input from receiver, servo
      Temperature - tmp36
      Primary flight controls - digital / analogue input from receiver, servo


9 Nov

  Sent component request to supervisor,
  Transfer, organise project ideas, files into GitHub
